Dear students, I'm Daniele Paragano from the Focus on University in Rome and I welcome you to the fourth module of the course made by ANALYST, a new advanced level of your specialised training. As you probably read on the syllabus of the module in the course programme, the module number four is related to Geography and Geopolitics Instruments in Intelligent Analysis and Theory and in this module we will analyse the role of geography in intelligence analysis profile and how is it possible to use techniques, skills and sensibilities that come from geopolitical point of view or from geographical point of view in the intelligence analysis activities. Probably reading the programme or reading the syllabus, some of you or maybe most of you think about the possibility to connect geography and intelligence analysis and at this topic will be dedicated the first part of this unit. The second part, as you can read in the slide, will be dedicated to the connection between geography and geopolitics. Those parts will be deeply analysed in future units, unit number two and unit number three but will be introduced now some concepts useful to better include the part three of this unit in your knowledge process. The first and second part of this module, as you can read, will have a more introductive role and the core of this unit will be the third part. The connection between intelligent analysis activities and geography probably is not too direct but the difficulties to create this connection, to think about the possibility of the use of geography in intelligence analysis profile, it comes from the partial idea that most of the people have about geography and I suppose that some of you come from academic activities, from academic studies, do not relate to geography and in some master or bachelor degrees, just in economy or political science and so on, the rule of geography is very limited and for this reason, for a lot of people, the idea of geography is strictly connected to the idea that we have from the school, from the primary or secondary school in which the geography is mainly the physical geography or maybe the administrative geography. Of course, physical geography especially, it's an important part of geography but our idea of geography, how we use the concept of geography in this module and maybe in the most common geographical approach of this period, this historical period, refers to the human geography and human geography comes partially from physical geography because in human geography it's also important the rule of physical structure of the places and to think about the rule of physical elements in human activities, we can think about some normal activities or also the place in which you are listening to this module. I don't know but some of you could be in a room in front of a personal computer, maybe some others will be driving in a car or in a park listening the module under the trees. It's evident this situation, this context change, not too much probably, but change the approach that you have with these topics from maybe a little change that could be the concentration that you have but more important changes if you are in a quite extreme situation in which you can easily image what we are saying. But coming to intelligence analyst, a lot of activities is related to space and also physical geography is important for intelligent analyst activities because it's important to know if the countries or the territory we are talking about are mountains or maybe desert or are interested by hurricanes or some atmospheric events or something like this. It's important because from a geographical point of view we every time refers to a specific place. Of course we move sometimes from territories to create theories or maybe more generic or more diffuse theories or point of view about social activities but we have to consider that place change radically the situation of the same human activity. And it's important especially in your field of work, the actual or maybe the next future for you, in which it's important to consider exactly the place in which situation appears. If you have a terrorist attack, for example, it's not the same in maybe Kashmir or New York, just to talk to situation in the past, or it's not the same if there is in Madrid or in London. And the event generally is the same, it's a terrorist attack, but the consequences and the effects and also the organization, the situation is totally different. For this reason we have to consider every time also the physical geography but we don't have to limit our perspective to the physical. Geography. And it's important to move from physical geography to human geography also to change the role of geography and the role of geographical elements in the activity. Because sometimes geographical things, geographical elements are considered as part, as a set of information, as a kind of scenario for other perspective. For example, the security perspective or the social perspective, the economic perspective. And sometimes people forget the geographical perspective. The geographical perspective means the connection between human activities and space. Humans and also non-humans, of course, but we're more focused on human activities and space. It's important to consider also that space is a very important part of our life. If we spend some minutes to think about it, we can consider the role of space in our life or generally in human activities. And according also to Immanuel Kant's point of view, space, Kant says, also time, is every time present in our life and in all human activities. And every activity we have, we've done, we have, we've done, can be connected to the space or to the places. For this reason, it's important to consider space, but changing perspective, moving from a functional role of geography, like a set of information useful for other disciplines, to a concrete perspective, to a real point of view. So the target maybe of geographical thinking is to create a geographical point of view, a geographical perspective. Of course, it needs a long time and we don't have in this module, in this unit, time to produce this geographical approach, but the idea is to open a window to the geographical perspective and emphasize the role of geographical perspective also through intelligence analysis activities. And you can see in the slide, I want to emphasize how much intelligence analysis activities is connected to the place and to space, much more than other human activities. Human activities. It's because we work in activities that are connected to space. Just maybe a little overview regarding the part that we see later. Let's talk about space and territory. And we must be clear from the beginning, space refers mainly to the physical point of view. So the space is a portion of Earth's surface. It's miserable and so on. When we talk about territory, we directly oriented to the connection between space and human activities. For this reason, we talk about geography, human geography regards territory much more than space.