and after the maybe introductive lessons interactive units we can go deeply in some key concept in geography and of course some issues was analyzed it before but can also remind that we are in a social science and knowledge is a cumulative process as it will be for a new theory see approach anything increase the total knowledge but not set aside the other but it's important also the language framework and special approach that we have for example the Italian is totally different from the concept of territory in English or terroir in French when we talk about the so in Italian basic framework we refer to the connection between human activities and places and space so it's very geographical terms and sometimes some scholars propose that geography it's the discipline which size territories in terms of territory but if you come where you know or you are familiar with the French approach our French language you know that there are means much more a bicycle elements have some relation with the concept of territory but is not totally the same because it's more focused on the physical elements of the physical structure and it becomes from the traditional French geographical school that move from Vidal de la Blanche and the regional studies and so on and also the concept of terroir we can find in a lot of context if you like wine or you have some experience in wine dust you know that a lot of especially when French wines talks about the terroir it's the physical elements that comes in the flavors of wine differently the terms territory it refers much more to the serenity, the power, to the control of space it's not the case that in English we used to call maybe British territory Indian territory because it's include the place in which some country have the sovereignty and for this reason this is an example to explain how much is important the context the framework which we use the terms and how the different language can change totally some concept and for this reason the concept that we introduce now are not universal concept are very diffused in geographical perspective but all of them needs to have a very deep analysis, a strong analysis connected also to the framework in which they were included. Of course it's difficult to find in a discipline the key concepts. In the organization of this module the idea of key concept is not general key concept but connected to the intelligence analyst approach and activities. There are concepts that are probably important in your activities and especially in terms of approach to your activities the first is the concept of scale it's a very key concept in geography because probably no one other discipline have the ability to move across scale and use different scale in its analysis and for this reason some geographers talk about geographical privilege the use of scale but it's not important in this moment it's important to know how we can move among and across scale and what we mean with scale. Another time we come back to the physical meanings, physical concepts in which scale is connected. It's maybe a connection, a comparative analysis between the usually the distance, the physical distance in the space and the distance on the map. For example if you have the map of Europe and we we want to know the distance between Berlin and Paris we can be sure on the map use the scale right on the map that is one at blah blah and after concrete distance. On the other side the person that create the map use the scale to transform the real distance, the concrete distance in the map. But it's not important for us this kind of conceptualization of scale we must more to the conceptual role of scale and more generally in this approach we consider the scale the level of our analysis and we can do the same kind of analysis at different level national, global, regional, local. Important element is that the information that comes from different scale could be different also for the same space. The more traditional example is connected to urban density, the number of people per square kilometers. If we consider for example the we can consider the Italian case in the Lazio region but we also can have the same in Spain with Madrid or Barcelona, in Greece with Athens or maybe UK with London and so on. Maybe a region in which we have a huge city with huge density. If we analyze at the regional scale probably we don't... the city influence the region and the number of the density it's high in every part of the region. But if we go to the move to more local scale the villages, the countryside have low density and city have huge density. It's the same situation but we analyze a different scale and we have the different results. It's important for intelligence analysis this ability to move to different scales because the situation can influence the space and the social relation at different levels and it's important to connect global, local, national scales to quickly, fast, fast comprehension of the situation at the moment. If for example we have a strike in a city of course we can analyze at urban scale but the effects will be at regional scale and could be also global scale. For example the strikes is in huge cities like London or New York or maybe if we have a hurricane in a city we don't limit our analysis to the city but to the connection with the other part and at that moment we are doing a multi-scale analysis and for this reason it's important to have the ability to intersect different scale in the same conceptual analysis. Of course it's also important to have this sensibility to not create the confusion in the interpretation of data that we have. In the very simple example that we have done with the urban density and the population density the same data for example at regional scale if we don't consider

the structure of the city, the structure of the region, so if we don't move of different scale we have a very bad information. We consider for example the region as an homogeneous in terms of these characteristics but it's not true, it's not evident in the space. So for this reason the concept of scale and the ability to move among scales it's important also in your activities. The second concept, the second key concept that we talked about is a place. In this case English is more familiar with this concept than other languages such as French or Italian and place comes directly from the space. As we told before space is a portion of the heart, it still depends about the nation. It's not important to consider United States of your room, we are talking about space if we consider the physical measurement of this space of course, of the portion of the heart. And space is measurable, we can measure the dimension of the room in which we are. Space is tangible because we can be connected in material way with the space. If there is furniture, if you are in a room or there is trees, if you are in the park or there are other human and not human elements that can be tangible. So space exists. I use maybe with a lot of difficulties the concept of real because also space is part of personal experience and personal interpretation. So it's not real at all, but it's quite real, we can consider it real. Usually I first look tangible more than real, but of course to be more clear we can consider it real. From the concept of space comes other concerns such as territories and place. There is as we told before is the connection between space and human activities. When we talk about territory, especially in Italian perspective, we focus totally on the relation that we have between space and human activities. We don't refer to human activities or space or maybe humanities in the space, but to the connection of relations. Please note that relation can be also material. We don't need tangible connection. For example, we can consider the air pollution. Air pollution is not tangible at all, air pollution is not tangible at all, but the possibility to change space and are human. So we analyze the creation of air pollution, we are starting a territory, the connection between space and human activities. When we talk about place, we refer to the emotion, the perception of nation, space. As we said before, space exists. You can consider and describe a space, for example a park. Imagine that we have a park with some trees, grass, children's park and so on. The space, because we can see it, it's tangible, it's concrete, we can describe it in a clear word. But the emotion connected to this space, are totally different. Imagine that it's a place where you go to relax, to spend some hour, outdoor and so on. Probably you have a positive vibration from this space. Or, on the contrary, imagine it's a space in which you receive bad news. You say, okay, no, I don't like this place. In this moment, we move from concrete, tangible space to emotional perception space. Why is this change important? Because it suggests to us to consider and also to you in your activities, like intelligence analysis, today or in the future, to include into your analysis, the geographical perspective, the human perspective. And consider that the space will be the same, but the place is different. It's different. And also people have different approach, different sensibility with the same space. For this reason, I suggest to move from space to place and pay attention to the human perception, human activities, not only to the physical and space. At the end, we talked about distance. In the generalist activities, a lot of time, he refers to distance and distance come directly from the physical element. We said before, we can measure the distance between we can measure the distance between Paris and Berlin. But in the new approaches in geography, in human geography, we can refer also to the concept of proximity, much more than distance. Because distance, it's a physical element. We can measure in terms of kilometers or time, or maybe train stops. But with proximity, which we can include the relation and the connection, why it's important? Because a lot of human activities are more related to the proximity than the distance. And the experience, for example, of multinational firms, of maybe the huge multinational and transnational movement in the 80s, 90s, the period of maybe a lot of people call globalization, but globalization is a more well, wide concept. If we can refer just to the movement of the enterprises, a part of interpreters around the world, we can consider the rule of distance and the proximity, thinking about the destination. When we start to talk about when we start to talk about the localization, we follow the experience of society that moves from United States or United Kingdom, mainly to India. And the question to a lot of scholars was why India is better for them than closer countries that have some similar economic characteristics but they have less distance. The idea is the proximity. India was a British, it's part of the British empire, and a lot, maybe, but the quality of Indian people speaks English and have some part of English tradition, or they know English tradition. And it's important for multinational firms, the proximity, to organize activities and to organize process in the space, much more than distance, especially because in this time the transport costs are reduced and distance is not too much expensive. So, looking at the post-colonial countries and the connection that continues after the independence, a lot of scholars pay attention much more to the proximity than to the distance. And this is important also in intelligence analysis, because in this way we can easily emphasize some connection and some reason much more than in terms of distance.