Hello, everybody. My name is Orko Banerjee and I'm the team leader at OSINT. I will be teaching you module 3, which is OSINT for real-time intelligence. The learning objectives of this module are as follows. By the end of it, you should be able to understand the need of OSINT for real-time intelligence, explore some different OSINT tools and platforms, learn some OSINT tips, such as the use of keywords and Boolean operators, and then finally learn some early warning signals while using open source intelligence. So jumping straight into it, let's move on to understanding the need for OSINT for real-time intelligence. Now OSINT for real-time intelligence basically focuses on using publicly available data to gather immediate actionable information that can support decision making during ongoing events or crisis. The goal of using OSINT for this is to provide timely insights that can be used to respond quickly to evolving situations. Now there are four main, let's say, real-time monitoring tools that we will be covering in this presentation. The first one is social media platforms like X, Facebook, Telegram, Reddit and Instagram. Second one is news and live feeds. Third one, government alerts and advisories. And then finally, commercially available AI-driven monitoring platforms, all of which are essential in their own ways for OSINT monitoring. So let's move into the first one, leveraging social media for OSINT. Now social media is very important when it comes to open source intelligence and it is a very great tool to track ongoing updates from people on the ground, reporters, eyewitnesses and even sometimes official sources. The main advantage of social media is that it often provides immediate on-the-ground insights that are hard to capture through the traditional intelligence channels such as your news media and so on. Secondly, social media sometimes comes with geotagged posts. So sometimes when you see images or videos that come up on social media, they are often geotagged and that can be very crucial in confirming the location of events such as protests, natural disasters or military engagements. And lastly, hashtags and trending topics can reveal the focal point of public discourse and highlight areas of concern. Now, this use of hashtags is very much seen when we see protest movements. So for example, when we saw the Black Lives Matter movement that emerged a few years back, hashtag Black Lives Matter was very popular and it helped track down a lot of protests that were going to be held due to that hashtag. Similarly, whenever we see climate activism or any sort of, let's say, major incident, there's always some kind of hashtags that accompany those incidents and that makes it very easy to sort of track down similar incidents of using the same hashtag or the same trending topic link. But as much as the advantages that social media provides us, it also comes with a bit of challenges. The first challenge of social media is information overload. So social media tends to generate a huge amount of data every second, all of which is not relevant. So as intelligence analysts, it then makes it very difficult to sift through this noise and find relevant, reliable and useful information. And the second challenge and probably the most biggest challenge in today's time is the challenge of misinformation and disinformation. Now, misinformation refers to unintentional false information. Now, this could be due to false reporting or due to a mistake being made in a social media post and so on. So that is misinformation where it is unintentional. And the second part is disinformation, where deliberate false information is posted on social media to, let's say, cover up an event, to spread a rumor and so on. So then it becomes very important for us intelligence analysts to keep this distinction in mind between what is real and what is fake, what is misinformation and what is disinformation. And in order to do so, there are some social media verification techniques that we as intelligence analysts can use to sort of fact check the event. So firstly, is always check the source. Review the profile of the post for credibility indicators such as the account verification, activity history and engagement levels. So do they have a blue tick on the profile? Is it verified by that social media company and so on? So Facebook, Instagram, X, not so reliable these days, but they also have the verification, which might help you see if the account is legitimate or not. Go to the accounts history, see the type of posts that the accounts have been posting, scroll through their posts to see if they are reliable. And then lastly, check the engagement levels. OK, see how many people are following the account, how many people repost the incident, how many people, how many other credible accounts are following the account and so on. The second verification technique is cross referencing with other sources. Now, it is very important to not only rely on the first social media post you see and you have to always cross check with other social media posts or news outlets or even sometimes official statements to ensure consistency in details. The third way to verify on social media is by performing a reverse image search. Now, let's say you come across an image and you do not know whether the image is a new image or whether it is an older image that has just been reused. In this case, you can perform a reverse image search to see if it has been altered or used before. Similarly, you can even perform video verification where you analyze the video metadata or you analyze the video frame by frame and pick up on audio visual cues to confirm context and authenticity of the video. And lastly, you can use geolocation verification, which is by using visual clues from the image or the videos to confirm the location of an event or an incident. Now, obviously, these are some of the verification techniques that you can use. There are many more that obviously that you will gain through more experience. But to start off, here are a few ones that you can use to verify information. The next topic that we will tackle is leveraging news media for OSINT. OK, now, similarly as social media, news outlets also provide a wealth of publicly available data that can be leveraged for analysis. Now, whether this is monitoring political events, natural disasters, conflict zones or social trends and news outlets all in a lot of places, news outlets often the first to report on conflicts, political unrest, military movements or diplomatic changes. So in places in Africa, for example, we see that where social media is not widely used, it is the news outlets that are often the first to report on any breaking events, on any political changes and so on. So they are very valuable in terms of gaining insights into the country or the region that you are looking at. Now, some tools for accessing news media for OSINT. Firstly, we have Google News, which is probably the most common and an excellent tool for aggregating the latest news articles. You can even sort it out by region, topic and keywords. Secondly, we have RSS feeds. Now, news sites often provide RSS feeds that can be used to monitor specific topics of interest. The RSS feeds allow you to keep an eye on whatever is put up on the news website without actually visiting the news website. So that also helps us sift through information and saves time. And then lastly, we have some news aggregators that monitor global and regional topics as they evolve. And then they will just bring you details from these different global news channels. Next, we move on to leveraging government alerts and advisories. Now, alongside social media, the news media, we also have government alerts and advisories that are basically official notifications by governments that provide critical, reliable and often time sensitive information about a variety of issues. Now, these issues can range from national security threats to public health emergencies, natural disasters and travel advisories. Official advisories are highly reliable and are almost always timely. And early warnings from these sources are vital for timely response and risk mitigation. Now, whenever we see any outbreak of unrest or civil war or conflict in a country, you will always notice that a lot of the embassies of different countries start issuing alerts to their citizens, asking them to evacuate or get in touch with the embassy or shelter in place and so on. And this means that government alerts and advisories then are very, very important in order to gain an insight into what's happening on the ground. Sometimes they are the only, let's say, source available to see what's happening on the ground and therefore become very, very important to keep track of. Now, there are different types of government alerts and advisories. And just to give you a glimpse over a few of them. So firstly, we have national security and terrorism alerts. Then we have cybersecurity alerts, travel advisories, public health alerts, and then lastly, economic sanctions and trade restrictions. Now, to gain access to all of these, you can just visit the government web pages, you can visit the embassy pages, you can visit the foreign ministry pages of whichever country that you are looking into.

And you will see that all of them have some way of issuing these alerts on their web page or on their official social media handles for you to keep track of. And the next awesome tool that we will be covering is AI-driven monitoring tools for open source intelligence. Now what are AI-driven tools? So AI-driven tools are basically software platforms that leverage artificial intelligence to automate the collection, analysis and interpretation of publicly available data. So basically AI-driven tools are scouting everything. They are crawling through social media, news websites, blogs, forums, any online platform and they help in bringing us information. So it sort of helps intelligence analysts and makes their work much easier because you already have, let's say, a platform that is scouting the web for you and bringing you what it finds relevant. Now AI-driven monitoring tools for OSINT, they have some key features which I would like to go through over here. Now firstly, AI-driven monitoring tools, they focus on real-time data collection. They automatically scan and aggregate data from multiple online sources via machine learning. Secondly, natural language processing. They process and analyze unstructured text to understand context, sentiment and key entities. And this is where it becomes very important that the AI is able to understand context of what is happening so that it can find that it's relevant and then bring it to you for further analysis. Thirdly, the AI-driven monitoring tools can help with sentiment analysis, which means it can measure the tone of discussions, whether positive or negative or neutral to gauge public opinion and sentiment. It can help with geospatial analysis, where it helps to map data to specific locations to understand any regional trends or threats. And finally, it helps with advanced search and filtering techniques. So it helps to sift through massive amounts of data at a click of a button or just by inserting some keywords, and then you can find the most relevant information. Now to give you an example of how AI-driven monitoring tools work, we have over here the example of Hawzint. So as you can see, this is how the Hawzint dashboard looks. On the left-hand side, you have the filters that you can sort of filter the information that you're looking for. So to give you, let's say, a demonstration, let's apply some filters. So firstly, I'm going to go to the location filter. And let's say for the purposes of this example, I'm going to select Israel and Palestine. Next, I'm going to move into the category section. As you can see, we have a bunch of categories. But again, for the purposes of this example, I'm going to select all the security categories, so which includes border incidents, civil unrest, civil war, and so on. So I'm filtering only security-specific incidents in Israel and Palestine. Next, I'm going to select a time frame. So as you can see, I'm going to select 24 hours, which means that the platform is going to bring me all the reports it has generated in the past 24 hours. Then we have an option to apply the keywords. But for the purposes of this demonstration, I'm going to skip over that and not apply any keywords. And then finally, we have the more filter section, which allows you to segregate the reports via the impact, the data feed, and the report type. But again, over here, for the sake of simplicity, I'm just going to select the data feeds, which is the verified data feed and the Haas and AI data feed. And then finally, I'm going to click on enter with the focus is all set up. And as you can see, it starts displaying the reports along with it geotagged on the map and also allows me to view it and allows me for geospatial awareness and analysis. Now that we have seen how Haasant works, it's time to see some Haasant tips and how you can use these tips with the tools that we have just shown you. The first step that we come across is Boolean operators. Now Boolean operators are basically powerful commands that you can give for refining your search queries or help you narrow down or expand your search results. By combining or excluding specific terms, the Boolean operators allow you to have better focus on relevant data and filter out unnecessary noise. So Boolean operators then allow you to be more precise. They allow you to be more efficient. They allow for better data analysis and then they allow for much further flexibility. They allow for precision by helping you exclude terms or combine terms. They allow for efficiency by helping you streamline your search process by eliminating irrelevant data. They help with better data analysis by structuring your queries thoughtfully and you can uncover connections or patterns that are not immediately obvious, especially in complex investigations that involve large data sets. And then finally, Boolean operators allow you to construct queries at different levels of complexity. So it is suitable for both simple searches as well as in-depth multifaceted investigations. So it allows for very broad flexibility. So here is a table that gives you some of the most commonly used Boolean operators. So for example, you have the AND operator which finds results that includes both terms. You have the OR operator that finds results that includes either term. Then you have the NOT operator that excludes results that contain the specified term. Similarly, if you put a term within quotes, it will search for that exact phrase. If you put it within parentheses, it groups the terms and operators for logical structure and so on. So you can obviously revisit this table to understand what are the most commonly used Boolean operators and then please feel free to go ahead and try using some of them on Google News or just Google them with the proper keywords for you to get some results. The next awesome tip that I would like to share with you is using keywords. Now keywords go a long way when it comes to open source intelligence. Now what you can do is firstly you can try using some core keywords, which are the main terms of phrases that are directly related to the subject you're investigating. So for example, let's say there has been a bomb explosion in Baghdad in Iraq. In those cases, then you search for the core keywords like explosion, bomb, or if you're looking at a particular terrorist organization, then search with their name and so on. Secondly, you have keywords variation, which means trying different variations of your keywords to get more comprehensive results. Now for example, data breach might also appear on new sources as data leak or cyber attack or even security breach. So then it is always important to try variations of the same keyword or the same incident. Thirdly, you can add locations and time constraints. This include adding the city or the country or the street where it happened or time related keywords like a specific date or since 2020, which can make your word search more specific. And finally, as we saw in the previous slide, you can use keywords along with Boolean operators, which can combine different keywords using the AND, OR, or NOT operators and then further refine your search. Here's another hint is that try translating the keywords into the local languages to get improved search results. So for example, as I was saying, bomb explosion in Baghdad. So try converting bomb explosion in Baghdad to Arabic and then running a search on social media, on social media or on Google News and so on. And you are much more likely to get a hit when you search for a particular incident or an event in the local language or the region specific language where it occurred. And lastly, we come to some early warning signals while using OSINT. So what are some like, let's say, key factors that you can look or look at while using OSINT to see if something something major is emerging or there is any increased threat. So firstly, you can see it in increased social media activity. So if there is increase in the use of hashtags or discussions to a specific event or issue that could signal that something is about to happen. Secondly, always check, always see if there are if the media or social media is using certain keywords or the or the repetitive use of certain keywords which have an unusual or a strong connotation such as war or attack or coup. Thirdly, check for unusual geolocation data, check for sudden Internet shutdowns or telecommunication blackouts that can be a significant sign of a larger event or crisis. And then finally, check for sudden military mobilization and military movement. Check for images or videos showing large gathering of forces, troop movements, military equipments or mass mobilization, which can obviously signal future conflict or future border issues or future war. So this was very well documented in Russia when Russia and Ukraine started fighting. There was significant satellite imagery showing the buildup of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border signaling that Russia was was going to make an aggression into Ukraine. And then it was like everybody saw it coming. It was not a surprise when it actually did happen, because, yeah, everybody was everybody again saw it coming. And that brings us to the end of Module 3. I hope you enjoyed the module. And yeah, thank you for your attention.