Okay, moving from the previous part and the idea of geopolitics that is producted by critical geopolitics, we can focus mainly to the actors. And to consider the role of the actors in geopolitics, we have to start from the actual situation in which geopolitics, in the common sense, is strongly related to the role of the state. Both in terms of scale, even if the analysis was at global scale, the pivotal role was done by states. So, national scale is considered a kind of hegemonic scale, as Hélène Légné or Jean-Huguenin suggests. And in this situation, the common sense, the most used approach to geopolitics proposes an idea in which the state is the main actor for geopolitical activities. And to consider and to analyze this situation, we have to start to the street. Because today, there is a coming back or maybe a reinforcement of this hegemony, because every time in the public debates and also in a lot of reports and so on, the attention is placed only just to the state. But what is a state? And which is the original state? First of all, it's a special partition. No more than this. And no more than other special partitions. And to this partition, we give an important role connected to sovereignty. Because, of course, in international relations, today's states have some prerogatives that other partitions do not have. But they can have if they become states. Take in mind what happened in the 90s in the Western Balkans. The former Yugoslavia was divided in some states. And what before was region became states. And take the responsibility and the possibility that the states have, consider sovereignty, and to use also military forces to maintain it, and also use the force to maintain the rules in the states. But what changes in some cultural and human situation? And how the states are created? And how the boundaries are created? Because another limit of the state approach is to consider state as homogeneous. A lot of time, the homogeneity, or the partial homogeneity to be more precise, of state depends on the state itself. Usually, we refer, for example, to the national language. And say, okay, Italians speak Italian. French are different because they speak French. But it's a very new situation, comparing to the history of these territories. Because we have to remember that in the special partitions, state probably is one of the newest. We refer to the state, to the modern state, for three centuries, comparing to a lot of thousands of years of the cities, for example. And sometimes, the boundaries create some situation of differences. Because in human activities, the space is continuous. And only the human boundaries create limitations and differences. Think about, again, the situation of divided countries. Sometimes, nationalistic parties that want this separation, or this division, enforce the idea of nationality, of identity. But it's very difficult to consider identity as limited and homogeneous in a partition. So, states usually consider a kind of limitation of homogeneous situation. And, for example, Italy is the country in which are Italians. But in a critical point of view, in a critical perspective, we can change the role of state in relation to the space and consider the performative role of the state. And how the states are actors who create nationality and identity. I know that it's a different point of view, but I introduced at the beginning the importance to change the perspective. Because actual situation needs a different perspective. Today, we are in a very connected period, and the connection today goes beyond the limitation of the boundaries. And we need a rescaling of the relation, both in terms of local actors and the international actors. At the same time, we have to consider the importance of other actors in geopolitical activity. The main actors that can explain this situation are multinational firms. Some scholars talk about post-globalization period, but we also refer to the idea of globalization. And we don't have time today to discuss about globalization at all, but we know that in the 90s, in the beginning of this century, started a very fast and big internationalization of firms. We don't go deeply in the motivation of this and the advantages for firms, but we have to check the situation at the moment. And despite the coming back process and the reduction of the multinational activities, we consider the production dispersed in different countries. So multinational firms move around countries and influence countries, because sometimes they have more economic power than the country itself. And the network between state government and multinational firms, it's changing state by state, time by time, because sometimes they have more power than the states, because they can influence the political situation of the states. For example, if multinational firms decide to move from one country to another, because they are more convenient for them, for their economic reasons, it's a very huge problem for the country. And this becomes a geopolitical issue, because, for example, it can start in a few years a huge migration. So where are the limits of economic activities and geopolitical activities of multinational firms? It's very difficult to define. And sometimes they can have both. And in specific sectors, they can have a more important role. We can think about, for example, communication, social media, social network. There are multinational firms. There are companies that have economic interests. They want to maximize their economic results. But at the same time, they have a very strong geopolitical role. Like other multinational firms, increased by the communication role. In the other modules, in the part of this course, you will analyze deeply and better the role of communication. But talking about geopolitics, it's very easy to understand today which is the role of communication in terms of influence, in terms of creation and address of social actors. Both using maybe so-called democratic way, and on the other side, the creation of positive movements. In this case, the role of multinational firms of communication, of social network, is very, very, very incredible. We know how strong is the debate about the role of social network in USA election. But the process is longer than the election period, because they can create some trends, some perspective, some point of view, which address politics. So they become geopolitical actors. And for this reason, they are very, very important. Probably, sometimes, much more than the states. And they do not refer directly to a state. Sometimes they can be connected to governments. They can be connected to political parties. But other times, they are quite autonomous.

and they interact political targets, geopolitical targets, with economic targets. And if we go out from social media, social network, and goes, for example, to other multinational firms, we have also to reconsider the role of boundaries. So the role of the state, because state exist, because exist relative boundaries. And we know the relative boundaries as not the result of maybe social process in terms of aggregation of communities, but it's the result of wars and international relations. So they are created and they divide the space giving to the different side of the space, of the boundary, a different organization. As we said before, human activities are continuous in the space. And if we move on the space, we can't find differences in the landscape, in the social organization, in the tradition, in the community, and also language, even if national language change radical this situation. But anyway, the boundaries exist today only just for some person, not for multinational firms. They are more free to move. Another important factors is the NGOs. And NGOs propose another pillar point in our consideration about actors. That is the multi-scholarity of politics. We introduce a scale in the previous unit. And today we apply in this topic because in this situation, there is a strong connection between local activity and global or international process. Okay, we refer to big NGOs. The NGOs that works around the world and include international activities and they move for local situation, for example, to reduce poverty of food production and the alimentation process. But they are also international actors because they decide, for example, to address their policy to one country or to another. And they change radically the evolution of these countries. So they have a geopolitical activity. And it's important for them to consider their role that is bigger than the single facts. But from another point of view, for observers and for intelligent analysts, it's important to pay attention also to these actors because these actors become sometimes more important than the bigger and the more institutional actors. And the difference between formal and informal are not in the actors, but also in the networks. Today, we see that politics become very informal, but when we talk about the informal networks, we refer much more to the connection that different actors have without a formal scheme and formal rules. And it's important to consider the network in the situation that critical geopolitics propose because traditional geopolitics pay attention to concepts such as the state of art, the scenario, the geopolitical context, and another time we can evidence how the perspective is to be out of this scenario and analyze it. But in a critical point of view, first of all, we are part of the scenario. We create scenario. And another time, it's important to pay attention to the flows, to the process that create it. The scenario do not exist. Absolutely. It's part of a process. And we have to pay attention to the process much more than to the scenario to the state of art. I know that is very more complicated than the state of art scenario and the scheme that we traditionally have. And for this reason, it's important that also intelligent analysts can be more flexible to image and to create the possible connection and the possible perspective to completely understand the situation. Because in this situation, but it's not for a choice, it's the changing world that needs it. We don't have, and we can't use scheme. The connection are much more than in the past are more, let me say, confusing and more variable in time and space. So we can't apply methods theory in a kind of mechanical way. We must increase our knowledge about situation. And also we have to move from a spatial perspective. We should focus on the space. So we study, for example, Italy, Italian situation, or maybe Mediterranean situation, move to the concepts, to the close networks, to the connection, to the situation that are influence itself, the space, but are not limited to space or specific of space. So as you can probably now have clear, this important transformation influence also the intelligent analyst approach. Okay, it become more complicated, of course, but more interesting and more useful for the companies. Because sometimes people that you can interact with, for example, companies, do not have the possibility, because they do another job, of course, to have this kind of perspective. And often they use traditional scheme to analyze society, but society is changing every day. So the approach must be dynamic and include other perspective and other point of view. And another point important also in the evolution of intelligent analysis profile, which are more addressed to business sector than to military sector or institutional sector, is that also geopolitics is not a war science. We told about it last unit, and we consider the importance of war in the evolution of geopolitics. Following the critical approach, the role of military in geopolitics change radically. If we see in the past, a lot of expert in geopolitics comes from military, and this create this confusion between war, militaries, and geopolitics. Today, we have more clear that geopolitics do not refers only just to war, but it's a discipline, it's a science who can study every kind of power and every kind of use the power with the space. And the purpose will be also a change of the society in a more peaceful way and more non-violent society. Sometimes, and there is a strong debate, people say that this another geopolitics, but no, it is geopolitics. The studies relation between all power and space. And for people that use this connection, and especially because you are geopolitical actor in your job, in your activity, it's important for various reasons. Various reasons. First of all, for the ethic reason. I know that you have the module dedicated to ethics, but in this part regarding the geopolitical ethics, when we are talking about geopolitics, we can have in mind our role and the target that we can have. If we consider and accept the possibility to have a role in the creation of different kind of society, we can consider the ethics as our direction. Our direction. On the other side, it's important, the sources of our consideration. Sometimes geopolitical studies have a kind of suffered the relation with military and consider military documents more important. But it's not totally true because of course, military have a strong power, especially the use of force. But society can create other kind of politics also to reduce the conflicts around the world. And for this reason, the sources that come, for example, from Chief William are not less important that come from military. And there is a big difference between geo-strategy and geopolitics. In terms of tools, often intelligent analysis refers to militaries because intelligent analysis comes from militaries. But today, and especially tomorrow, we can imagine, we can produce a different set of tools that come directly from civil society, which are different from militaries instruments and create a new set of intelligent analysis tools for different purpose, but also with a different approach.