Dear students, welcome to the second unit of the fourth module of the Project Analyst. And as you can see in the slide, in this lesson, this unit, we will go deeply into the geopolitics field and especially we will introduce some concepts of geopolitics, but we will focus on actors, policies, networks and geopolitics. Of course, the idea of this unit is to connect geopolitics, that is a very wide sector, to the role that geopolitics could have in intelligent analyst activities. According with the idea of the project, the unit have a theoretical framework, but consider also the practical information and the approach useful for intelligent analysts, or maybe future intelligent analysts. Anyway, to start, we will consider some evolution, some recent evolution in the debate regarding geopolitics. As you can read, we talked about actual geopolitics and we introduced some theories, some concepts which explore different ideas of geopolitics, comparing with the traditional one. The aim of this part is to introduce other points of view to geopolitics, because usually the debate and the use of terms geopolitics and geopolitical concepts refers to the traditional ideas of geopolitics. And in the, we can call, newer approach, but not too much new, because there are around the 1990s, but in these new approaches, these new approaches propose also different perspectives in the relations, in the networks and in the actors of geopolitics. This new perspective, this actual, this contemporary perspective, can also offer some different point of view of the role of geopolitics in the intelligent analysis activities. And for this reason, this module is connected to the third, in which the concept and the approach of geopolitics will be deeply analysed in the intelligent analysis profile. To consider geopolitics, we have to come back with time to the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th, when the disciplines, especially the social science, become to be fragmented in a lot of sub-disciplines, and the geography was split in, for example, geopolitics, or maybe economic geography, or urban geography, and so on. Today, the idea is to interact much more these disciplines and these sub-disciplines, because the limits and the boundaries are very, very poor, and it's very difficult to consider when finish economy and begin politics and so on. But anyway, at the beginning of the 20th century, more or less, some scholars create a new epistemological framework for geopolitics, and we refer especially to Fred Grassley in Germany, or maybe to Aron Mackinder in the United States, and Mahan in the United States. And we have the two main schools of geopolitics in the beginning of the last century. It was the Germans and the British Americans, so the roots are these two schools, and these two schools have an important role, especially between the two world wars, and we have to consider that we are in the period between the two world wars and we are in Germany. So, there is a strong connection between the Nazism and geopolitics, especially in the person of Karl Haushofer, which began the intellectual framework. The Haushofer world became the intellectual framework for Nazism. You also have personal connection with Nazism, but it's not important. It's more important that the connection is very strong, and Nazism used the Haushofer theory and also the Ratzel theory. It's important to point that we are talking about the use of theories. There is no evidence that the creation of theories is for the purpose that will be used, but this strong connection creates a kind of paradox which geopolitics start to be considered only just a war discipline. We will end this unit talking about the geopolitics of peace, because in the contemporary geopolitics, the idea is to create a different perspective to geopolitics. To create a different perspective to geopolitics is not necessarily a discipline focused on the war. Geopolitics do not appear when we have war, but study every relation between power and space, the specialization of power and the influence of the space into power is the focus on geopolitics, and the power is not necessarily the military power, but considering geopolitics as a war discipline, maybe in a preventive cancel culture, the idea was to cancel geopolitics from intellectual debate after the second world war. In Europe, especially, but also in the United States, it was very difficult to create a geopolitical debate, and for this reason, even if there is a huge use of geopolitical theory, for example, the containment policy is very close to the American geopolitical thinking of the beginning of the 20th century, but even if the political actors use and produce geopolitics, the study of geopolitics disappears from the university, and we have to arrive at the 70s with Lacoste or Lefebvre, or maybe some other scholars, which propose a different approach to geopolitics that allow to geopolitics, they start from the urban geopolitics, maybe, and from the transformation of geopolitics in the 70s, we arrive in the 90s in the radical change in geopolitics, but it's important that this change is mainly in the intellectual debate, in the academic debate, if we open a newspaper, or we look at the television, or we listen to some experts in geopolitics, they refer mainly to the traditional theories, they do not consider in their debate, in their analysis, the new trends. It's also because, as we will see in a few minutes, the new approach, the critical approach, is maybe more difficult to diffuse and to be understood, because it's less schematic than the tradition, and it's not the case. These new theories start in the 90s, of course, because there is the influence of the so-called French theory, such as, of course, like the readers of Barthes or Foucault, but there is also a political change. We are in the 90s, and we know in the 89s the Berlin Wall fell down, and also in 1991 there is the transformation of the US in Russia, and what we know today. And also to analyze the situation that appears in that period, some scholars use the intellectual framework that some decades before, the French authors maybe, or also some scholars such as Antonio Gramsci or Azwar Saeed, propose also in different fields. And you can see the contribution of these authors, direct or mainly indirect, to the transformation of geopolitics. And we can focus on some topics, for example, the idea of the narrative discourse, geopolitics was focused, the study of geopolitics was focused on the debate, on the discourses, text analysis, and the deconstruction of text analysis. Today we know the power of the public speech, and also the power of the tweet in the creation of geopolitics. But if we can focus on this, we can use this conceptual framework to divide the concept to the process. It's not important only just the concept in a maybe public speech, it's also important the construction of the discourses. Also some other points, such as the image and so on, but from the 90s they start to analyze the geopolitical theories using the deconstruction approach that the French philosophers propose in the 70s. Of course, we are talking about power, and we said before that it's very difficult to

define what is power. But following also Foucault, the idea of power radically changed from the 90s, because the traditional idea of power, especially when we refer to geopolitics, focuses on the state, on the government, every kind of governments, or maybe an idea of vertical power. Following Foucault, but also using other perspective that interacts with this, the idea of power changes a lot. And we will focus today on the mechanism of power production at different scales. We talked last unit about scale, and we can focus now to the different scales of power, because not every time state, government are at the power. There are other actors, and we see later, that can have power upon the same space, and the power of these actors can be more than the scale of action. We can, for example, focus on the role of the municipality, for example, New York municipality, or London municipality, maybe some other important city in our municipality. And the measures of these cities sometimes have more power than the governments, because they can change in their space some policies that influence the role and the action at different scale. Maybe, for example, if they decided to close an airport, or to move an airport out from the city center, it's an urban choice, it's an urban decision, but the effects will be important for all the country. Imagine that, for example, in London, they close the airport in the city center, and they move to our bus out of London, out of city of London. Probably, the importance of London as economic and financial capital of Europe decrease, and maybe some other cities can take this point, and also the UK reduce their importance. So, for this reason, looking at Foucault and the other authors, we can focus on the different organization of power, and you can see in the slide that there is a very fragmented process that take ideas from different topics, and also in the different part of history, which refers to the idea of Antonio Gramsci, that was some decades before. And for this reason, but it's normal in the critical perspective, that we don't have a school or approach, but a kind of constellation of approach that have common points, but also different ones. I go fast on this slide, because it's a very interesting definition that Claudio Minca gives of post-structural geopolitics, but is also connected to critical geopolitics, and is useful to allow us to analyze the more important points of geopolitics in the critical approach. If you remember some units, last units maybe, we talked about real, when we talked about space, I say, okay, it's real, but it's difficult to define real, and because critical perspective rejects the ideas of reality, and focuses on the construction, on the narratives that create the space, place, political situation, and so on. So we don't have in the critical perspective the reality, and for this reason, geopolitics do not have to study something that exists, but studies something that is in a continuous dynamic process. And for this reason, geopolitics is performative. So geopolitics creates itself. In another sense, if we talk about geopolitics, we are doing geopolitics. Geopolitics do not exist out of us, and we see and analyze it, but we are part of geopolitics, and with our debate, we create geopolitics. For example, if we decide to study geopolitics, study the United States geopolitics, we have not to have to refer only just to Donald Trump discourses, but the way in which analysis, analyze the Donald Trump discourses, or the Donald Trump views, or the choice to analyze only just Donald Trump, it doesn't change the United States geopolitics. It does not change the action of the government, but changes the approach and the ideas of the geopolitics. Of course, we don't have the same powers to change. If we debate in a private meeting with two or three persons, probably we change the idea of these two or three persons. But for example, if we write on the newspaper, if we write books, or if you influence and suggest and propose action as intelligent analysts, you can change geopolitics. You are not only just users of geopolitics, but you are also producers, but we'll see later. Another important point is the rejection of geopolitical studies as a problem-solving. It's a total critical perspective. In the critical perspective, scholars do not have to resolve problems, but scholars, intellectual framework, have to create the problems, create questions, much more than answers. Of course, it's a point that is not useful for professionals such as intelligent analysts professors, because you have to solve problems to your company, to propose a solution for your company. You are not just information or analysis. Of course, it depends on the role that you will have, but intelligent analysts must have an idea of problem-solving. But for this reason, it's not geopolitical scholars, not geopolitical academics. But it's important in an operative way, this point, to analyze the documents that you receive, or maybe the theories that we study. In the concrete situation of the moment, you have to resolve that problem. But if you study before a situation, for example, you want to study the situation in a continent or regarding some topics, you have to think about the role of books, papers, you're reading. Because in a lot of time, geopolitical books propose solutions of the problems, but it's not the role of critical geopolitics. They want to create new ideas, and in this way, we resolve problems. Of course, geography, as all other disciplines, are non-neutral. And we have to be totally honest that there is non-neutrality, because there is no reality. If we decide to study a topic, we just take part to this, and just we have some ideas about it, and we change it. So, scholars are not neutral. But it's important in the evolution of the analysis the role of previous ideas, because scholars, but also you, in your activity, must be open to change radically and fastly the idea, if the evidence of your study or your reflection suggests these changes. One of the main problems today in geopolitical studies is that we continue to use the same mental schemes, the same framework that we have in the past, but the contemporary world is totally different from two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, and so on. Every day, world changes, and world changes very fast. If we don't be open to change our perspective and use the same scheme to analyze the problem very late, we have to be fast and open to change our approach. We are not neutral, of course. We change, and we produce change. We are part of the transformation, but we must be open to see the other transformation very, very fast. And the performative geography proposes also some consideration about the differences between geopolitics and geopolitical studies, because we can have different positions. We talked about this point in the previous units. We have to consider that we have a strange role, because at the same time we have analysts, but also actors of the same analysis. If we can use the previous example, if we talk about Donald Trump's approach to US government or international policies, international relations, we are doing geopolitical studies, but we are not neutral, so we produce geopolitics, because we change something in this narrative. Of course, probably my personal role is very limited, because I don't have the influence that can have, for example, an opinion leader or maybe something like this. But it's important that we consider in every activity that we do in the geopolitical field that we are both in at the same time. We study a phenomenon, but we are part of the phenomenon itself, and we are changing it. So we don't have to consider geopolitics out of us, but we have to consider ourselves part of the geopolitics narrative.