And we arrived in the module four, the third unit, that probably is more specific of the module to intelligence analysts. And the points, but this unit is the connection between geopolitics and intelligent analysts. And this units comes directly for the previous unit one and unit two for this module. And we analyze in these units the connection between intelligent analysts and geopolitics. The starting points obviously will be the consideration that we have done in the previous units. And especially the consideration that we have done to the geopolitics in, for the critical geopolitics and the new approach to geopolitics. I continue to call new to different, but the traditional, but we know that there are around 30 years now of this approach. So it's new, but not too news that we can image. And in the second part of the unit, this connection can be deeply analyzed. The third part begins from the ideas that we promote in the unit number two, that performative geopolitics or geography and consider the role of intelligent analysts as geopolitical actor. As we say before, you have to consider yourself not only analysts or technical analysts of the geopolitical framework, but mainly geopolitical actors. Of course, with different roles than other actors and it depends obviously the situation, the working situation that you are in or you are involved within. But from a theoretical point of view, you have to consider yourself as part of geopolitical debates and this reproduce, a lot of consequences also in terms of ethical and social role. The conclusion of this unit will be dedicated to the possible evolution of this kind of connection. This course obviously is dedicated to the creation of intelligent analyst expert, but it's not limited to the creation of figures, professional figures. Close or maybe at the same situation of the actual activity. The idea of this course is also to promote possible evolution that can be applied in the private sector and the public sector in the intelligent analyst field. Of course, not all of you have to do it and not all of you will have the possibility to do it or not all of you wants to do it in the same way, but the target of the module is also to create some ideas that can be useful for the future of this field. And if you remember, and I hope you remember the first unit, we say that every human activities is connected to space and can be analyzed by geographical point of view. And we say intelligent analyst activities is strongly related to the space. Now we can have more clear how much the so-called geopolitics is part of intelligent analyst activity. And if you have experience in the sectors, you knows how much you refer some geopolitical information but we have to change according with the previous module, the concept of geopolitics and geopolitical information that we have. Because sometimes in intelligent analysis activities, we refer to geopolitical information as in traditional way or in more common interpretation. A lot of time we don't have real a concrete geopolitical information but we have just spatial information or international relations information. We have the, for example, the country report which give a lot of information about the countries but do not give us possibility to analyze connection, networks, actors, differences in the same place. For this reason, we have to change our sources for this reason, we have to change our sources using also sources that don't have specific country limitation but refers mainly to the concept, to the process and to the clues. At the same time, the classical idea of scenario refers to the traditional geopolitics and today is very limitative in the use according with the critical point of view and from my point of view. As I told you at the beginning, in geography and in a lot of other social sense, there is no uniformity. Fortunately, in the perspective, a lot of geopolitical scholars propose it but in a more diffuse approach today, the idea of scenario is not useful because scenario is a continuous transformation, transformative process. The today scenario is not the tomorrow scenario and at the same time, we have to focus about the role of data and the information because the scenario is a creation using some data or some information. It does not exist really. We create it using information and events, facts but we can create also in different way.

And we can see the situation that's a lot worse that we have today, in which different narratives create different perspectives on the situation. And also the idea regarding the situation is created by these narratives. So we have different levels, the facts, the information, and the scenario, the creation, the use of this information to create the scenario. So we can't refer to this concept, but we have to be more dynamic and create different approach that consider also different scales. Another time it's important to consider all the scales, especially if you will work in the private sector, because private sector can interact with a multitude of actors that moves at different scales. You have to interact with the information that comes from communities, that comes from private sector at local scale, that come from private sector at global scale, that comes from global transformation policies that works at global scale. You must be ready to collect this information in a unique process and create an idea clear of the situation that will be in the future. It's another important point. No one has to predict the future, but time has an important role today because we are in a fast society and the situation can change radically and sometimes it's too late with the events. We can't image the events. Of course, traditionally, intelligent analysts have to operate with certain data. We can use hypotheses as a source, but we can predict consequences and we can predict in a short time range some events. How we can do it? Only between scales, considering also elements that move at local scales, for example, or trying to image the consequences of global production. And today, as we told before, we don't have too many theories to study the situation. It's a consequence of this very variable geopolitical situation at global scale, but also local policy at every scale, but it's also related to the ideas that critical geopolitics wants to have about their role. Sometimes people who are not geopolitical studies say, okay, we have to use traditional geopolitics because we don't have new theories, or today geopolitics do not produce theories. It is true. But the absence of theory is a theory itself. We can't use today a formal scheme or a strong mental scheme, it might be more flexible to interact with different situations and different sources and different sectors. Different sources because every actor produces their sources of information, their narrative, directly or indirectly. Sometimes it's difficult to find it because, for example, the narrative of multinational films do not move in formal reports, but move in terms of communication, in terms of activities, in terms of informal connections, formal networks. And it's very, very difficult to interact with this because there are no sources in the traditional way, they are not elements that we can use to analyze the situation, but are very important to create an idea about the possibility to evolution of the sectors. And regarding the different sources, you have also modules about this topic. Today we have a wide range of sources and we can also think about government sources. We have public documents, we have public speech, but we have also messages on social media. How we can consider this and how we can interact with it is very, very complicated, of course, but we must have the sensibility to understand how some sources could be important in a specific moment, in a specific period. Another time it's important to not have pre-built ideas, but follow the flows and understand in each moment which are more important. Because another time, time is important, sorry for the repetition, time is important. We can't wait for the effect of social media posts. We must be fast to think about the possibility that these social media posts can create in a few minutes. Unfortunately for people who do this job, the situation today changes very, very fast. And we can't wait for the traditional documentation report. So, for this reason, we have to pay attention to different sources that come from different sectors.