To introduce the intelligence analysts as geopolitical actors, we have to refer to the idea important in critical geopolitics, that geopolitics is performative. And as you can remember, or I put again in this slide, we have to change the perspective and the situation that are outside of us, but we are part of the situation. In these units, in this module, sometimes I refer to some international situation. Not too much, to be honest, but because it's another important point that we have to consider approaches and concepts that must be over the actual situation, but we can talk about this later. But sometimes I refer to some aspects, to some situation, to some government or person. The choice that I've done is not neutral. If I decide, for example, to talk about one person or another as an example of, for example, a formal politics debate, or one country as an example of industrialized countries. I remember that we have done the example of London as an industrialized city. It's not the same if, say, Milan or Moscow, or maybe Beijing, because it suggests to our people that are listening to us, an idea of this city, of this person, of this situation. And in this way, geopolitics is performative, because it creates itself, and intelligent analysts have an important role in this one. Okay, it depends on the interpretation of your activity. Sometimes it's considered just functional to other sectors, but according to this example that we have done, or doing this conceptualization we have done, we can consider the importance in change the geopolitics of territories, of different territories, because it can be a lot of time indirectly. You analyze a sector, you analyze a situation, probably you can give a report to some other person which decides an activity to do. The activity maybe can have a strong geopolitical effect, or have a geopolitical effect at different scales, but also your analysis has an indirect role in this geopolitical effect. Of course, it's different your role with maybe the World Bank director, or the United States president, or I don't know the example that you have in mind. But it's not important how much is strong your influence, because some considerations are connected to the possibility to change. It's not important if we change a lot of few, but we must have in mind that we are changing something, and they become geopolitical actors, probably with less power than others. Probably with less power than people who decide using our reports, using our information, using our analysis. But we have responsibility in terms of geopolitical framework. We are participating in geopolitics, and according to our responsibility, we have to emphasize the ethics that we have to have. Ethics is a very complicated word, because sometimes it's connected to the positive ethics, and I prefer this approach. When I refer to ethics, I think about positive ethics in terms of social ethics, in terms of improving the possibility and make better the life of people, not only the person, and not only the situation of few persons. But of course, it's my ethics. Anyway, when you will be responsible in changing the situation using your activity, even if you change very few, you must have to consider the importance of your activities also for the other person. So, what I want to suggest to you is to think about your job not only as a technical job, but as a social job, in terms of possibility to change the situation of the countries or maybe the villages or maybe the cities and so on. It becomes more important your responsibility, and we can reduce intelligent analysts as technical job. Of course, you don't have to fear responsibility. But to have in mind the importance of your job also for the communities. And as I introduced, I want to suggest to propose, to image, to open other windows about potential evolution of this connection. As I told you before, the idea of this module and of this course is not to be limited in the operational way, but to create some structures that allow the evolution of a sector. But the evolution of the sector, evolution of the activity can be decided from only just one perspective. It is the result of perspectives that meet, match. And for this reason, it's not the profile of future intelligent analysts. I don't have the possibility and the skills to do it. No one has this possibility and the skills. But there are points that I want to give to you to think about how, in the future, when you will do this job, you can create this job, because every activity is.

have to change when world change. So you don't have to think about these four points as a guide for the future, but just to some ideas. And the future could be much more than these four changes or others, I don't know. It's a kind of results of analysis that we have done in the correlation between intelligent analysts and geopolitics. First of all, sometimes we come back to a situation that we explored before, but it's a kind of conclusive part, so it's normal that different points interact. So we start from very general topics and we arrive to intelligent analysts, but in a different perspective we close the circle because we arrive again to some topics that are important. So it's useful to collect all the information that we have done in this pre-module, the unit, sorry. And the first is the military approach, but it's not because military approach is wrong. It's not a campaign against military approach in intelligent analysis. The situation is that military approach is very present in intelligent analysis, but the question is, it is necessary for the future or it is possible to create a specific civilian approach. I talk about the future, but I talk really also to the present, because actually there is an ongoing approach which includes more and more tools and was created for business intelligent analysis. But the idea is to the idea is to create and to improve this creation process of specific business intelligence analysis, but it's not. In the analysis that are connected with the space and with the territories, it's important to move from territories to general and come back to territories. But territory is not the landscape, it's not the scenario, it's dynamic, it's heterogeneous, it's full, it's made by local actors that we have to consider, that we have to consider, even if our activities mainly work on global actors. The third part is the attention to the flows, attention to the process. Also, this point is very present sometimes in intelligent analysis, but could be more relevant in the future, I suppose, when we pay more attention to the transformation, the dynamics, and we really consider the role of transformation and how much transformations are fast in this society. And for this reason, we can start from scenarios or situations defined, but we can move faster to the process. And the last, it's a question open between problematization and simplification. Because, as we told before, in an operative way, you have to produce answers, not questions. For your company, it's important to have some information, total answers, and not questions. To produce a question regards much more other jobs, other activities. But the risk of this process is simplification. We have to pay more attention to this point, because if we consider the produce of answers as a simplification, probably we lose a lot of information. For example, the role of state. I come back to this example, because we dedicate a lot of time to this. And we analyze how state as a concept is very useful, because we can refer to universe, as a concept. It's very useful, because we can refer to United States or Italy, and we have in mind what we mean. At best, we don't know exactly where the countries are, because it's another important element. But we know that there are United States, Benin, South Sudan, Italy, and so on. But if you don't problematize the concept of state, the use of state becomes a simplification, because sometimes we can refer to Italy, other times we have to refer to a more complex, more detailed idea of Italy. Probably, the trend will be the simplification. I want to propose to you to pay attention to the questions, not as a result of your job, but part of your job. Yes, I know that when we are working, you need to be fast, to be at the moment, and to be... You have to analyze a set of data together, but in the back-office work, and especially in the construction of your profile, pay attention to the problematization. As I told you, it's just some points that are present, are partially present in some companies, in some sectors, in some intelligent analyst activities. In other, probably the approach is more traditional. As I told you, it's not a guideline for the future, but are points that regard the connection between geopolitics and intelligent analyst job. And I hope that these three units improve your sensibility in geopolitics and expand your geopolitical approach, because sometimes you have to refer to this point, and the people that you interact with probably have different ideas. So, I hope that this relation will be useful for the evolution, also the relation between intelligent analysis and geopolitics.