I'm Blaise and I'll have the pleasure to guide you through module 2, which is familiarizing yourself with countries and finding relevant sources. The main objective of that particular module for you is to analyze a country risk environment, assess risk and identify threat actors impacting corporate securities. The main outcomes are for you to understand the dynamic between corporate security and business continuity, to understand strategic and real-time intelligence and how both of these kinds of intelligence interact with each other, identify and assess threats to business continuity and a company's assets, and of course, last but not least, to be able to create a practical country risk profile. So in order to do so, it's first and foremost essential to understand what you're trying to protect, which is understanding corporate security. Corporate security encompasses measures taken by an organization to protect its physical, financial, intellectual, and human assets from internal and external threats, such as theft, fraud, cyberattacks, natural disasters, crime, terrorism, political uncertainty, economic turmoil, or diplomatic crisis. So what are the assets of a company? What are you basically trying to protect? First and foremost, personnel. So employees means executives, contractors, workers. And secondly, physical assets. So buildings, including offices, manufacturing facilities, warehouses, equipment, machinery, and vehicles. Let's say for your particular kind of job as an analyst, these assets would be definitely the two essential ones. Although we can distinguish some others, of course, intellectual property, financial assets, technology and IT systems, which are in general covered by a dedicated department focused on cyber security and information security, suppliers' contracts, and last but not least, strategy partners and subcontractors. These two particular kind of assets or categories of assets are indeed very subject to geopolitics and external factors, so it should be definitely taken into account while doing country risk analysis. Again, it's essential to have a good understanding of the company's operation and overall business environment in order to accurately and relevantly identify risk and threats. And you're, of course, doing so to ensure business continuity. And business continuity is the ability of a company to keep essential operations running during and after unexpected disruptions. It involves planning and preparation to minimize downtime and ensure a quick recovery. I do really insist on the necessity to understand a company's profile to, again, be as relevant as possible when trying to assess risk and threat to the asset of that company. So, you have to provide an answer accurately to the following questions. What is the company's core business and main products or services? Identify critical operations that must be prioritized in continuity planning. Also understanding who are the company's primary customers or target markets, and how is the company structured? Last but not least, what are the decision-making chains and resource allocation in crisis scenarios? Again, and still to understand the company's profile and the business continuity, it's essential to understand the context in which the company is evolving and all the external factors potentially impacting the company. What in this real sector does the company operate in? What are the main competitors and what is the company's market position? What are the key trends or changes currently affecting the sector? What regulations or compliance requirements impact operations? What are the biggest operational challenges the company faces? What external factors have recently impacted operations? How does the company respond to disruption or unexpected events in its sector? What strategies are in place to ensure operational resilience and business continuity? To give you further tools to understand and identify better risk and threat, it's essential to distinguish strategic monitoring and real-time intelligence. While strategic monitoring focuses on long-term trends and global context, real-time intelligence focuses on immediate events and incidents to provide a rapid response. To do strategic monitoring, you can use reports, analysis, perspective analysis, in-depth memo, and other, let's say, more in-depth kind of intellectual production. When it comes to real-time intelligence, you will use a threat intelligence platform, alert systems, and other relevant ausing tools. You would, of course, tend to use strategic monitoring, let's say, on the long-term perspective, so for investment, long-term risk mitigation, and strategic planning, while real-time intelligence is really used for incident response and crisis management. Also it must be clear that these two categories of intelligence or of methodology are definitely complementary. One cannot be done without the other. It means to have, let's say, a relevant and accurate real-time intelligence, you really need to have behind, let's say, a solid strategic monitoring. Again, to give you the proper, let's say, intellectual tools or theoretical tools to do strategic monitoring and real-time intelligence, it's essential to have a very good idea of the time frame, meaning to understand what is short-term, so let's say, one day to one year, medium terms, one to three years, long-term, three years, and beyond. Knowing that, of course, the shorter the term is, the higher is the probability, also provides you with a list of examples for you to understand what events or incidents could be related to that particular term. So to understand a country risk environment, you can definitely consider several categories. So basically, the efficacy environment varies widely by country and region, affecting business continuity in many possible ways. At Hazen, we consider travel risk, terrorism, crime, political violence, health and epidemic, natural hazards, and transportation. It's absolutely necessary, of course, to add financial and trade risk, especially in regards with recent events, so, of course, tariffs and customs. Here I'll just give you an example on the visuals of our risk index for each category and how it's represented. So you would have a different risk index based on the category you are trying to follow, and that will be applied to every country, based, of course, on our dataset. Then, of course, if you don't have a threat intelligence platform like ours, you have to start somewhere. And I would give you the advice to start with, let's say at the basic level, and it's a very good start, is travel advisories. So they are very well made by security and intelligence professionals and specialize in travel risk. They are brief and clear. You often have interesting and relevant visuals. They are comprehensive, so they include and consider a wide array of potential risks and threats, and they are often, if not always, up to date, mostly following the latest developments when it comes to, let's say, a political crisis, election, sometimes epidemics, and definitely a very good start. Here is a list that you can activate. I'll give you five of the most relevant ones, most remarkable ones. So the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs. It's really good because you can subscribe to the country you're following, and you will receive daily updates, of course, the U.S. State Department and the government of Canada. Most of these, let's say, travel advisories will give you very relevant information in the situation of the country you're interested in, in the country you're interested in. I give you a screenshot here of, in the case of France, how it's structured. So you have, let's say, the latest development in the countries, and when you click and when you go into this country, then you have a list of all the relevant information you should know. Moving on, I give you also a map that, in the case of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office of the UK, you will have several maps to understanding, let's say, sometimes a regional security assessment, sometimes even a state-by-state assessment, or in that particular case, areas that should be avoided and safe areas. Again, moving on to how to acquire or have some relevant information on countries, I give you here several very interesting databases with a lot of information. You can have the link if you click on them. So you have, of course, the IMF, the World Bank, European data, it's extremely relevant, but unfortunately just cover European countries, I mean EU members, CIA World Factbook, that might sound a bit fishy, but it's a very good site. You can find very up-to-date information when it comes to political organization and governments of every country. You have two international and very well-known NGOs, so Transparency International and Amnesty International. Sometimes very relevant information when it comes, let's say, to the degree of corruption or, of course, press freedom, and they are often very relevant when you do country risk. Same goes with OECD and UN data. Plenty of information on many sectors of the society, so absolutely relevant, and you can explore them and find what you deem relevant, especially based on the company's needs or the company's activity. Other very relevant categories of sources would be risk ratings companies, because they highlight complex country-specific threats into actionable insights and supporting informed and risk-aware strategy. Basically they allow you to quantify risk exposure, identify key risk, benchmark and monitor. So in that particular, it's really interesting because it compares ratings across countries and over time to spot changes in risk level. Very interesting. I give you a list here, so of course it includes the three main ones, of course, standards and powers, Moody's and Fitch, which are, let's say, particularly relevant because it's pretty easy to understand, whereas the others are, let's say, very specific to some sectors and also quite niche, but they are still quite relevant and I also suggest to take a look. So again, we are reaching, let's say, the end of the module. The essential aspect, of course, of country risk analysis and risk analysis in general is, of course, your ability to identify potential threats. So to do so, you really have to collect multidimensional data, including on crime, and I would suggest that when it comes to security, one of the essential aspects is law enforcement effectiveness, other relevant economic indicators, so GDP, growth, inflation, external debt, balance of payments, etc., political factors, governance, quality, stability, policy, consistency, conflict history, of course, other things such as election, definitely key, social dynamics, so what are the demographic trends, is there any current civil unrest and social trouble, what are the migration patterns, then, of course, the overall regulatory environment, the legal system strength, regulatory changes, trade policies, and environmental risk, natural disaster, climate vulnerability, that's particularly relevant with climate change, where you would see, I suppose, in the future, how definitely global warming is having an impact on business continuity and it's now, let's say, a very significant threat when it comes to the operation of a company. Again, it is essential once, of course, you've identified a potential threat, it's key to prioritize these threats, and to do so, you have to assess the likelihood and impact, so the probability, the probability is basically the chance of occurrence, you have to estimate how probable it is that a threat will materialize using historical data, expert judgment, and trend analysis, and, of course, its impact, it means the severity if it occurs, so you have to evaluate the potential consequences if the threat occurs, considering the financial laws, the operational disruption, etc., and I just give you a small, let's say, mental example here with the risk matrix combining, let's say, the probability and the impact. And last but not least, I'll give you, let's say, the secret formula to assess the risk, it's threats times vulnerability times impact, meaning that, of course, to define the risk posed by a particular incident, particular event, something you have, that you believe will impact the company's operation, is to focus on, of course, the threat itself, so the probability that a harmful event will occur, the vulnerability, so how exposed or unprotected the country, organization, or system is to that threat, so that's a key aspect of your analysis to understand, and we come back to the knowledge that you should have on the company, again, the impact, so impact is the severity of consequences if the threat materializes, so financial loss, operational disruption, and reputational damage, so the formula, what it means is to assign, and it's in order to be as rational as possible when you evaluate that risk, is indeed to apply that formula, and to see, and to take into account that the higher scores indicate higher overall risk, and it will definitely help you prioritizing the threat, and being able to explain to, let's say, your superior or colleagues what should be the priority of the company, or of your particular security department, so I hope I helped you to at least give you some, let's say, a frame to identify and, of course, prioritize the threats, and how to do a country risk analysis, I thank you very much for your attention.