Following the previous part of this unit, we consider the data that we can use in GIS and the first step is to consider that we can use both quantitative and qualitative data. For example, in terms of qualitative data, we can express the answers to some questions now, maybe in a set of interviews, or maybe we can also include, for example, the photographical data, and we can use the so-called satellite image, and we put it on GIS, and just to have some information is the system that a lot of time mobility providers, such as Google Maps or the other like this, use it to have their maps. Maybe most of you, moving in the countryside or maybe in some not urbanized places, have the experience to arrive in a broken road or something that is similar to road but it's not a road, and the question is why, he suggests, is like road or another point of view, how it's possible to know exactly all the world, all the roads in the world. It's not possible to use data sets of, for example, the municipality of road system because they are very incomplete in a lot of case, so they use this satellite image, they are not satellite, of course, are just from an airplane, but we call it satellite because it's very high, but it's an image from an airplane, and in this case, from a map, they can create in a GIS the road system, so they have some line in the figure, in the image, and it becomes a road, and for this reason, sometimes it's wrong because it could be, for example, an ancient road that becomes for them a concrete and actual road, and as you can read, the data sets can arrive from a lot of sources, probably, if you take your smartphone and check how many apps allows the use of your position, in this moment, you are giving data to some GIS system because they are tracking your position, so if you move by car, they can use this data to monitor traffic, in some case, for example, if you move from your country to another country, it's useful to connect you to the mobile line of the different country, smartphone knows that you are moving out, and you are giving this data, or for example, when you put photos in the social network, or also if you take your smartphone, every photo has time and place also, that concept, of course, so today we have a very, an incredible amount of data, of georeferencing data, because the origin, the moment in which GIS are used in the 80s, in the 90s, the main problem is to collect the data, because the collection of data at that time was done by GPS system and GPS machine, so you have to go to a place, check the position, probably you have missed the position for some meters, and have the georeferencing data, today we can do by our smartphone, because we are connected every time to the GIS, to the GPS system, but also in other way, of course, it's not only the smartphone, the smartphone is the more common data provider, and the situation is very changing at this moment, because we don't have too much difficulties to have data, georeferencing data, but at the same time, it's open to ethics and legal issues connected with data, and the smartphone situation is evident, because we have a legal framework that allow to the system to use our data, because we give them the possibility to use, the permission to use, but we have to ask to ourselves when we use data, if it's also correct in ethics point of view. So, data set can be arrived from a lot of different sources, and how we can do with this data? The most elemental activities that we can have is to put it on a map, with a GIS connected to our smartphone, we can check, for example, how many photos we have done for, maybe in a place, the concentration of photos that we do reproduce, and concentration is just a geostatistical analysis, obviously we don't have time, probably you explore some point in other modules, but there are example of statistical analysis that we can do by GIS system, and in this case, it's very useful that GIS systems are maybe intuitive in terms of operational activity, to create, for example, cluster analysis or buffer analysis, if we have correct data, it's not more than one or two commands to the system, and because the system have itself the statistical procedure to do it, and it's, for example, very useful to analyze concentration or dispersion of phenomenon. We can move in a totally different situation, for example, in the situation of a war, in a war, we can show on the map the concentration of military attacks, or on the other side the concentration of military structure. I want to do these examples from military, because I want to show you.

kako je mogoče ustaviti GIS v totalno detaljno sistemo. V tem pripadu je mogoče ustaviti geospazialno analiziranie. To ne je prosti geostatisticalni analiziranie, to je geostatisticalna analiziranie, zato je srečeno do mesta, tako da lahko ustavimo srečno povezanje med dato in postojanjem data na mesto. V tem pripadu je mogoče ustaviti produkacijo data. Kako je mogoče? In še en prosti pripad iz svojega izkušnja, to je zgodovina pogodbe. Vsako čas je mogoče izkušnjati na svojem smartfonu temperatura v svojem oblasti, v svojem mesto ali v svojem oblasti. In za zavisnost, poskušajte, če je meteostacija. Zgodovina je, da ni meteostacija. Tako je mogoče imeti dato, njega, temperatura. Če ni sistem, da ga razmešljamo s specijalno analiziranjem. Ustavljanje sistema predstavljanja temperaturi, možete razumeti na statistično zadovoljstvo. Seveda, to ne je zelo jasno, ampak sistem danes je zelo, zelo precizen. Možete reči, možda samo na primer, temperatura v ena stacija je 20°C, v druga je 22°C. Zgodovina je, da je 21°C. Če se razmišljamo na temperaturi, temperatura se može razmišljati. Zgodovina je linijna, z dva punca. Če razmišljamo in vključamo druge razmišljanja, je mogoče imeti zelo precizeno temperaturu, ampak najpomembnejše je, da v tem razmišljanju razmišljamo delo. Ne samo razmišljamo delo, ampak razmišljamo nove delo. Ne imamo te informacije pred tem delo, ampak jih imamo zdaj. In veliko zgodovina se razmišlja na delo, na razmišljanje. S GIS ne imamo samo statične delo, punce, lini, ampak možemo analizirati delo. In je zelo pomembno, na primer, predstavljati. Uživanje delo je mogoče predstavljati neke razmišljanje. Na primer, predstavljati smrti je Covid nekaj godin in oni analizirajo kako je srečeno na neki fenomeni, na prv, mobilnosti ljudi in če imamo mobilnosti, mozemo predstavljati razvijanje pandemije, na prv, mislim, da je prva vprašanja GAS, ena najpomembnejših vprašanja v GAS sistemu je medicalno vprašanje da analiziramo in predstavljamo razvijanje malarije. V tem razmišljamo in razmišljamo razvijanje malarije, virusa, in možemo predstavljati razvijanje malarije na svetu.  razmišljanjem na tem prvom predstavljanju, razmišljamo veliko temelji. To je potenčje GAS. To potenčje je zelo pomemben sistem, ki ga lahko uporabljamo v različnih sektorih, in, čisto čisto, ga uporabljamo v različnih sektorih, ker uporabljamo vsak dan z, možda, kaj je, ko je na našem avtu, ali možda, ko izvajamo nekaj informacij, ali možda, ko izvajamo trafiko, ali možda, ko vidimo zgodbo, in tako dalje. In v razmišljanju z intelizacijo GAS je, moja misl, tudi v zgodbi različnih instrumentov. V zgodbo, ker delate, ali delate z veliko dana, ki prihaja iz različnih zgodb, in včasih je zelo nemožno stvariti povezanje med različnih dana. Jedini elementi, ki stvarijo to povezanje, so geografični elementi. Tako možete izvajati ta informacija, da razvijate dana, da analizirate fenomeni, in da predstavljate nekaj fenomenov. Seveda, možete izvajati GAS kot pristopna glavna zgodba, ali možete izvajati nekaj zgodb, da razvijate informacijo, ali možete izvajati GAS na različni temati, ki jih imate potrebi. Izvajati različni strani, naprej s sistemom, ki je razvijanje strani in razvijanje dana, možete razvijati fenomeni. Za to razloženje, želim začeti od začetka, od konceptalnega različnega GAS, ker, možda, v veliki različniki, imamo zgodbo, ki se srečno razvija. Na primer, možete razstaviti svoj GAS dedikatiziran je na vaš temet. Za drugo stran, možete razstaviti kako se razvija GAS, da bi pobolj analizirali današnje dati, da bi razstavljali problemi s mapami in razstavljanjem. Zato razstavljamo našo razstavljanje. Začnemo od teoretičnih puntov, kjer je geografija, zato se razstavljamo na geopolitično in razstavljamo ta unija, GAS. Srečan sem, da je razstavljeno, koliko te instrumente bi bilo povoljno za razstavljanje in razstavljanje te informacije.