In these 40 units of the first module of this course, we move from a more theoretical approach to a practical theme, that is, the geographical information system. And in this course, you will meet with the study of information and geographical information system also in other modules, also in other parts of the course. But to complete the conceptual process that we open at the first unit, I think it's important to have an instrument, a set of tools, useful to apply some of the concepts that we analyze. In geography, we don't have too many technical instruments, probably GIS is the most important instrument, a technical instrument that characterizes geographical approach, and for this reason I introduce to you some key points of geographical information system according with the theoretical framework that we open in the previous part of the course. The first part of this unit will be dedicated to GIS in terms of conceptual role, considering also the role of maps, the information that maps can contain and can produce. The second part will be focused on the opportunity and possibility that GIS has in managing data and creating data. And the last part, considering the role of this module in the course, is a connection between GIS and intelligent analysis activity. So we can start considering what GIS is. And geographical information system, as the name suggests, is not only just a software, it's a system, it's a set of process and analysis tools that usually are considered related to the creation of maps. A lot of people think about GIS only just for the possibility to create a map, especially mathematical maps. Even if GIS can be used to do it, and it's a part, it's an important part of GIS because the outcome of GIS every time is a map, it's very limited to think that the only role that GIS can have is the creation of maps, it's a substitution of other kind of representation with electronical maps. Mainly the GIS allows the creation and analysis of data moving from the georeferencing process What we mean with georeferencing process? This process is the connection between data and position in the space. As you probably know, I suppose, I hope you know, it is possible using a system of coordinates To create a connection between activities and place in every time is possible to put our position on a system, a coordinate system with latitude and longitude, and we can do for every kind of data. In this way, GIS can collect data from different sources and create a set of possibilities to analyze it, but we see it later. Above all, it's important to have in mind that maps are the outcome of the GIS, but it's not the only possibility that we have, and connected to the maps it's important to have some consideration about the geopolitical role of maps, and now you can see in the slide the power of the map, and it's important because also an intelligent analyst, you have to work with map and can produce maps as image and communication system, and because maps create synthetical information, a lot of time we consider how it's important to show on the map some data especially when we have a lot of partitions, and with the map we can consider the information of different, for example, countries, of regions, in terms of, I don't know, GDP or some other index, and it's a very fast information because it moves on the image, on the visual data, and everyone can have an influence about it, but, and this is important, and this is a very big power of the people who produce maps. As you can read in the slide, we have to start from a very, very elemental concept, that earth has three dimensions, but maps have two dimensions, so the process is to move from an element that has three dimensions to an element that has only just two dimensions, and in this way it's impossible to represent this situation without a system of projection. Of course, it's not a module dedicated to cartography, so I give you just some information and I suggest you to improve them if you're interested in cartographical books or articles, but to consider which could be the projection you can image to a photo. If you have a person or an object, imagine that the objects that you have in front of you, I don't know, your laptop or every other object that you have in front of you, and you want to create a photo about it, you can move around it, and in every perspective you use, you create a different photo, but the systems of projection are more elaborated, so we can have a lot of image, a lot of representation that have, even if they follow a very strong mathematical process, have the same importance and the same characteristics. We don't have a map better than another, but we can represent world in a lot of different ways. Just to have a little example, the most commonly used Mercatory map do not allow to have the same dimension of spaces in the representation, because it creates the north and south part of the world bigger than in the reality. But we use, and we use a lot of time, we consider it exactly, but anyway,

we start considering that every map can have a set of information that arrives directly. This is an important point, because when we see a map, we consider the framework, the idea that the map produces, but we don't consider the indirect effects that we have. For this reason, we consider maps as a specific way to create or promote power. Who controls maps have a very important power in geopolitics, especially in this time in which maps are very very useful, probably much more than in the past, and we can see later this point. Anyway, remaining to the maps, just to have an idea, take in mind this example that you can follow in the future when you will have a thematic map. The thematic maps are the maps which have different colors for the maybe the same phenomenon. In this case, the role of colors is very important, because indirectly they promote emotion, significance, impact that change our perspective on the world. For this reason, it is very important to consider the role of maps in cartography, but also in intelligent analyst activities. At the moment, we consider maybe the situation in which you will use maps in your work. In this case, you need to have a complete analysis, two different levels of analysis. The first one is connected to the direct impact that you have. The second is connected to more rationality, to more maybe mind against hurt approach to the map. In this case, you have to consider why the cartographers have done some choice. For example, why he or she use different colors, or if she use different scales, or if she use maybe different projection. And it is important, especially when data comes from situation of conflicts, not in terms of war, but conflictual situation. In this case, people who produce maps can emphasize some phenomenon, some phenomenon according with their own interest. And for a complete analysis, it's important to consider how and why this subject use these maps and create this map in this way. If we see this map, you can think about, okay, you tell me this data, but at the same time, he wants to produce these effects. So, we have other information, probably much more important than the previous one. And after this short part regarding to maps, we can arrive to GIS. We come back to GIS. Of course, GIS today, actually, there are other firms like Esri, Esri is the more used GIS system in the private sector, but they are also open source, such as QGIS. QGIS. And it would be interesting for you, if you are interested in, to download QGIS and try to work with it. Of course, it's very difficult to work without some points that you can see in the image, because the conceptual organization of GIS is related to layers. Layers, as you can see in the image, can be considered different levels of data that we can overcome with each other and connect using the geo-referencing system. As I told you before, it is possible to geo-referencing every kind of data. And in this way, we can create the connection between different layers. And these different layers will be a wide set, wide range of data, it can be data set or maybe the structure that's usually are produced by firms or maybe by open sources in which we have, for example, the partition. If we want to do some analysis about worlds, for example, we can have a map, a blend map with all just the boundaries of the state, for example. And it will be considered as the first level of the map. On this one, we can put the other layers in which all layers, every layer, it's the result of a geo-referencing system of data. For example, if we want to consider the hurricanes in the world, maybe last year, we can put the lines that hurricane have done so we have a layer with a set of line and on the original layer and create a different levels. In a different, in another layer, we can put, for example, the cities. And we have, in this case, areas or points. And we have, in this case, areas or points, as we prefer, that are cities. Another layer, for example, could be the main infrastructure, such as port or airport or so on. How we can use it? We can use, for example, to connect cities, infrastructures and hurricanes. For example, to analyze the impact of the hurricanes in the cities and in the infrastructure system. In this way, for example, we can consider how many airport, for example, can be destroyed by hurricanes. But we can have the same data in different source, but the result, the outcome will be unmet. And in this way, as we see before, we have an information more easily to be described, analyzed and summarized. Imagine, for example, to describe an hurricane. Yes, it's possible. Start from this point, move this way, this way, this way, blah, blah, blah. With an image, you track the routes of the hurricane and it's easy to say, okay, it's close to, for example, Miami or another part of the world. The concept of layers is the system in which GIS works. And to understand the exactly works of GIS, we have to consider which kind of data we can put on these layers.