Hello, everybody. My name is Orko Banerjee and I'm the team leader at Hausent. Today, I will be teaching you module four, which is geocoding and mapping tools. The learning objectives of the module are as follows. Firstly, you will be able to understand what is geospatial intelligence or GeoINT and its role in threat analysis. You will learn how to geocode, learn about visual geolocation and learn how to use GIS platforms or geographical information systems to create a visual risk assessment. So jumping straight into it, what is GeoINT or what is geospatial intelligence? Geospatial intelligence is the collection, analysis and visualization of information related to the geographical location of objects, events or phenomena on Earth. It combines geographical data such as maps, satellites, images and GPS coordinates with other forms of intelligence such as text, images or sensory data to provide insights that help decision making, risk assessment and strategic planning. The role of geospatial intelligence in threat analysis is threefold. So firstly, it helps us in mapping incidents. It helps us plot threat events on a map to help visualize patterns and hotspots over time. Secondly, it helps in proximity analysis where we can assess how close threats are to critical infrastructure like offices, supply chains, public places or public transportation hubs. And thirdly, it supports decision making. That is, it gives decision makers a clear visual insight on where to act and helps in planning evacuations, rerouting logistics or deploying security teams. Now that we have understood the role of geospatial intelligence in threat analysis, it's time to take a look into the components of geospatial intelligence. So firstly, we go into geocoding and what it means. Now, geocoding is basically the process of converting place-based information such as an address, a place name or a description into precise geographical coordinates. Once we do so, these coordinates can then be used to visualize, analyze or map the location in geographical information systems or in mapping tools. So in a nutshell, geocoding is basically the process of converting addresses into latitudes and longitudes to find so that they can be plotted on a map or on the GIS systems. So to give you an example of how geocoding works, let's look at the following example. So in this example, we have a shooting incident at a park in Conway, Arkansas. So let's see. Officials with the Conway Police Department are investigating a Sunday evening shooting at a park that left two dead and nine injured. According to a post on social media, the shooting happened at Fifth Avenue Park and then police said that the people who were injured in the shooting have been taken to the area hospitals and are currently stable. Officials have not released any information on possible subjects or the names of those who died. Now in this post, we have to then convert the location from this post into geographical coordinates. So as you can see, the red box highlights the text that we need, which is Conway, Arkansas and Fifth Avenue Park. Once we have these details, all we need to do is run a Google search or a Google map search to be more precise with this detail. So as you can see, Fifth Avenue Park, Arkansas, you enter it into the search bar and click on search and Google Maps should display a result. Now, once Google Maps displays a result, right click on the map pointer wherever it falls and it should suggest the decimal coordinates of that location. So as you can see on the picture, I right click on the point and it shows me 35.08817 minus 92.42236. That is the geographical coordinates that you will need in order to input it into a GIS system or into another mapping tool. And that's basically simply converting text based information into latitudes and longitudes. Now, let's try the same process, but with a different example. So let's move to example two. Now, in this example, we have the UK MTO has received a report of an incident 70 nautical miles southwest of Al Hudayya in Yemen. Authorities are investigating and vessels are advised to transit with caution and report any suspicious activity to the UK MTO. Now, let's say over here we do not have an exact point of reference and it only says 70 nautical miles southwest of Al Hudayya. So in order to get the exact geographical coordinates of 70 nautical miles southwest of Al Hudayya, the first thing that we need to do is convert the nautical mile convert the nautical miles into kilometers slash miles. And then the next step is to locate Al Hudayya in this case, which is the nearest point of reference mentioned in the text on Google Maps. So let's do that. As you can see over here, I've converted 70 nautical miles into kilometers, which is 129.64 kilometers. And then I have gone to Al Hudayya on Google Maps. Now, once you have Al Hudayya opened up on Google Maps, right click on it and then go to measure distance. Once you click on measure distance, it will allow you to draw a line corresponding to the direction and the distance that you need. In this case, 129.64 kilometers southwest of Al Hudayya. And once you have drawn the line, as you can see over here, right click on the measure distance to obtain the coordinates. Now, although this doesn't provide the exact accurate location of the incident, it is a very close approximation to where the incident might have happened. And it is much more accurate than just saying 70 nautical miles southwest of Al Hudayya. So in this way, you can again use Google Maps to measure the distance and then give you exact geographical coordinates. Now, along with Google Maps, there are other tools that are worth mentioning, which could help with geocoding. You have Google Maps, Google Earth, OpenStreetMap, Wikipedia, Wikimapia and GeoNames. All of these are free tools available on the Internet. You can obviously have a look at them, play around with them. And all of these have inbuilt features that will help you get the coordinates to the location that you are finding. Now that we have understood what geocoding is, it is time to understand what visual geolocation is. A lot of times what happens in threat analysis is that we come across only pictures or videos on open sources. And then it is our job to determine where that incident happened just by looking at the video or a picture. And that is where visual geolocation comes in. So visual geolocation basically is the process of determining the real world location of an image or video using visual cues, metadata and mapping tools, often without the direct GPS data. So in a picture, let's say, what are the type of clues that then you can look out for? So firstly, you can look at the built environment, which means you can look at the buildings, the street layouts, the architectural styles in the picture. It might point you to a specific area in the world or a specific country or a specific region. You can look at any text that you might find within the picture, such as street signs, shop names, languages or fonts. You can look at transportation such as the vehicle types, the license plates, the traffic signs and so on. Similarly, you can look at geography and nature such as the mountains, the rivers, the coastlines and the tree types, the seasons, utility lines such as power lines, cell towers, road markings. Every country has different, let's say, road markings, different types of power lines, different types of call towers, cell towers. And finally, you can look for cultural clues, which means any flags, any advertisements, clothing, any alphabets or any type of writing that might stand out that could help you determine the location of the picture. Now, here are some tools that you can use for visual geolocation. So we have Google Street View or Google Earth to help you match landmarks and street views. We have Yandex Maps for better imagery for Eastern Europe or Russia, because Google, let's say, does not do a very good job there. But yeah, it does do a job. But let's say Yandex is much better. Then we have the Exif tool or the metadata viewer where you can extract hidden GPS data if it is present within the image. We have reverse image searches or tools to perform reverse image searches, which can help you find matches or similar images online. And then similarly, we have Mapillary, SunCalc.org and Bellingtide GeoTips, all of which provide help when it comes to visual geolocations. So please, again, feel free to visit these tools at your convenience and play around with them and get a better hang of it. Now, let's tackle visual geolocation using an example. OK, now take a moment to look at this picture and try to figure out some clues that you can take away from the picture. So look at the buildings, look at the taxis, look at the vehicles, look at the signage on the vehicles or on the buildings, if you can see any, and then we shall move ahead. So take another 10 seconds to just look at the video. You can always come back to the slide later on to have a closer look. So just for now, take 10 seconds to have a look at the video or the picture. Now, once you've had a clear look at the image, here are the clues that you can infer from the image. So firstly, you have the Cyrillic script.

that you can see on the buildings and that means that the picture is likely from a country that uses Cyrillic for example Russia, Ukraine or Bulgaria and so on. You can see the taxi colors are in yellow or white which is really common for taxis in Moscow which is again a big hint. You can see the Soviet style housing in the background or the architecture in the background which is common in former USSR countries and then finally you can see the area code on the taxi which is the area code for Moscow. A quick Google search will give you that result. 495 is the area code for Moscow and it is present on the taxi so the picture is in Moscow but however let's try to get a more accurate location. Obviously Moscow is a bit vague, it's a bit too general. Let's try to further narrow it down. Now that I have Moscow and Russia in the picture, let's also put the picture through Google Lens. So what I have done is I have taken a snippet of the Cyrillic sign on that building as you can see in the first picture and I have run a search on Google Lens. Now as I ran the search on Google Lens, it immediately directed me to a train station, the Krasinski railway station and once I was at the Krasinski railway station, I simply went to Google Street View and then spent some time looking around in Street View to get the exact location. So as you can see the location is that Komsomolskaya Square. If you want, you can go to Google Maps, enter that location and then have a look around and then corroborate that same picture and that's how you geovisualize or visually geolocate an incident. Now in today's generation with AI and with social media, it is very important to know the difference between a fake image and a real image. So what I have done here is provide you a table in order to understand the difference between real images and fake or AI images. Now there are certain very apparent distinctions that I think you should know as open source investigators. So firstly, hands and fingers are different when it comes to real images and fake images. For example, in real images, you will have 10 fingers on your hands but in the fake images, you will have more than 10 fingers or some fingers will be missing. Similarly, when you see the picture of someone's face with their teeth out, the teeth in real images will be individual and properly spaced but in the fake or AI generated images, it's normally blobby, melted look without any separation. Then you can see the background or the eyes and reflection. So if you see the background in real images, it makes sense with the subject, there's consistent focus. If you see the background in AI generated images, it's normally warped, there's like a dreamlike blur to it, it's distorted or so on. Similarly, there are more features that you can keep an eye out on from how to view text, facial features, lighting and shadows, context and logic. You can even sometimes understand between fake and real images by simply viewing the metadata. So real images will normally have camera data, time stamps or GPS stamps to it whereas a fake or deep fake image will never have metadata available and they're always removed from the fake pictures. And lastly, when you are looking at videos, a real video would be very smooth with a realistic motion and so on. But if you look at a fake video, there will be jerky movements, unnatural expressions or there will be a lip sync delay. So these are obviously some common, let's say, check points to keep in your mind when you're conducting visual geolocation. Obviously, as the AI improves, these distinctions will become even more blurry. But to start off, these are some of the distinctions that are very obvious between real and fake images. So now that we have understood what geocoding is and what visual geolocation is, it is time now to understand or to use a GIS tool to create a visual risk assessment. Now, GIS tools or geographical information systems are basically softwares that are used to help create visual risk assessments. Now, how do they help? Firstly, they help by mapping threat locations. So it allows you to plot various types of incidents such as crime, protests, conflicts, and natural disasters, etc. on the map. You can then overlay this map with locations of your company assets or critical infrastructure. So let's say you have an office or offices in places like London, Paris, Delhi, or so on. You can then overlay those addresses onto your map and then map the threats alongside your assets or the critical infrastructure that you want to view. And then finally, you can use GIS platforms to create a temporal analysis. That means you can use them to show how risks evolve over time by showcasing the timeline of incidents. You can use heat maps that can change with the time or you can even filter it through impact to help you better understand the nature of risk. All of these features then support risk forecasting and risk analysis. And therefore, GIS platforms are a great help in threat intelligence. Now, although most GIS platforms have their own, let's say, features or their own way of doing things, this is a basic overall guide for you to see how to use a GIS platform. So firstly, we have step one where you import your threat data such as protests, conflict, crime from sources like ACLED, police reports, or news feeds. Then you import, as I said, your company asset locations or points of interest. This could be either in latitude or longitudinal form or in addresses. Step three is that you overlay these layers and then use proximity tools to identify threats within an X kilometer radius. So for example, if you have an office in central London and you want to view the threats that are happening within a five kilometer radius, then a GIS platform or a GIS tool will help you do that. And then finally, you can style the map with meaningful symbology like colors, icon severity to help the visualization, to help make the visualization even better. And then finally, you can export visual maps or then publish this to a dashboard for external use. Now, to give you an example of how a GIS platform works, we are going to use Hausent to create a visual risk assessment. Now, Hausent allows you to import several types of data as we see over here. So over here, as the example shows in the first picture, I am selecting the type of data that I want to be viewed. So I'm selecting election. I'm selecting politics where I have corruption, diplomacy, election, social trouble. I'm selecting all of security for border incidents, civil unrest, civil war, crime, kidnapping, military exercise, piracy, terrorism, war. And then I select travel warning. So basically, I want to plot all of these types of incidents onto the map. So I selected the categories that I needed and then I select the timeframe. So as I said, the GIS platforms allow you to create a temporal analysis, which means you can view incidents over a period of time. So for the purposes of this example, I have set the time range to the past 30 days. Next, it is time to create geofences for proximity analysis. As I said earlier, GIS tools allow you to create, allow you to visualize the risk and also assess the proximity at which the threat or the risk is taking place. Similarly, Hawzen gives us the option of building three types of geofences for proximity analysis. The first one is radial geofences, which is just a circular area around your points of interest. The second one is the polygonal geofence, where you can create a polygon according to your wishes. And the third one is a line geofence, which means that you can select two points to create a path in between to show you the incidents that happened between those two points. And then lastly, for the purposes of this example, I have created geofences around the five airports of London. So as you can see on this first map, you can see the five airports of London, that is London Stansted, London Heathrow, London City Airport, London Luton Airport and London Gatwick Airport, all plotted on this map with the geofence of five kilometers created around them. That means the platform is now showing me all the types of incidents that have happened within the five kilometer radius of these airports over the past 30 days. So now if I want to view it and put a different layer of mapping on it, let's say I want to view it with a satellite map, here how it looks. And then finally, if I zoom into one of these hotspots, so for example, let's over here, we have zoomed into London City Airport. You can see the major hotspots of crime, protest and whatever the categories we selected over the last part of the last 30 days happening around London City Airport. Now, if I was a decision maker, this map would help me make decisions, understanding where the areas of risk lie around the airport, where somebody could travel to or from without facing crime or disruption and so on. And that's how the visual risk assessment helps decision makers in making decisions to keep their company or their assets safe. And this brings me to the end of this presentation. I hope everybody enjoyed and had a good time. Thank you for your attention and have a nice.